---
title: EEE 6516 - (April 2025) 

course_type: Postgraduate
summary: Quantum Computing
show_date: false

syllabus: This course is on the Quantum Photonics and Quantum Computing

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
date: '2029-06-01T13:00:00Z'
date_end: '2029-06-01T15:00:00Z'
all_day: false

# Schedule page publish date (NOT talk date).
publishDate: '2017-01-01T00:00:00Z'

authors: []
tags: []

# Is this a featured talk? (true/false)
featured: false

---


**This webpage will not be updated, and kept just for prospective students to have an idea about the course.**  
We have created a class Teams for this course, if you have not been added to the class Team, please email the course instructor.

## Incomplete Grade Policy
In this course, you will be given an I grade, ONLY if you complete all assignments and Final Presentation, and just fail to appear in the final exam due to reasons beyond your control. You must apply to Head of the Department of EEE within 1 week of commencement of the final exam. 
Failure to participate either the assignments or final-presentation would not be considered for I grade, and your grading would be done through the Grading criteria. 
Kindly consider the policy, and withdraw from the course if you are unsure if you would continue.

## Class Schedule
Tuesday 2pm-5pm
Room EEE 625, ECE Building, BUET

## Syllabus
### Course Content
Introduction to quantum computing; Postulates of quantum mechanics; Qubits and single-qubit gates; Operators and quantum measurement; Quantum information processing, superposition, entanglement, no cloning theorem, and quantum teleportation; Quantum circuits, controlled operation and measurement, universal quantum gates; Quantum algorithms: Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, Grover’s algorithm, Shor’s algorithm, quantum Fourier transform and phase estimation; Density matrices and Bloch sphere representation of quantum variables; Quantum 
error correction and fault-tolerant architecture; Physical realization of quantum computers: harmonic oscillator, optical quantum computers, trapped ions, superconducting qubits, and new implementation schemes. 

### Course Outcomes (CO)
After completion of this course, students will be able to

| CO No. | CO Statement | Domains and Taxonomy level(s)\*\* | Delivery Method(s) and Activity(-ies) | Assessment Tool(s)              |
| ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| CO1    | **Understand** fundamental notations and problems of quantum computing quantum algorithms and structures.                               | C2 : Cognitive<br/>/Understand         | Lectures, <br/>Handouts,<br>Code Book     | Assignment 1 <br/>Final Examination |
| CO2    | **Assess** the efficiency and limitations of quantum algorithms, and different quantum hardware and technologies                        | C5: Cognitive<br/>/Evaluate            | Lectures,<br/> Handouts,<br/>Code Book      | Assignment 2 <br/> Final Examination |
| CO3    | **Demonstrate** proficiency in implementing quantum algorithms and quantum circuits with multiple qubits for solving practical problems | P4: Psychomotor<br/>/Mechanism      | Class Demonstrations <br/> Code Book       | Final Presentation,<br/>Report      |wr

### Assessment Policy
* Continuous Assessment: Continuous assessment any of the activities such as assignment, presentation,
programming assignment etc.
* One Video / live presentation will be prepared by individual students.
* Final Examination: A comprehensive term final examination will be held at the end of the Term.
Class lectures, Case studies, Research papers review, Practical problem solution etc.

### Grading Policy
1. Class Test (15%)	
2. Midterm (25%)	
3. Final Project (30%)	
4. 4.Term Final (30%)

### Textbooks / Resources
1. C. Albornoz, G. Alonso, M. Andrenkov, P. Angara, A. Asadi, A. Ballon, S. Bapat, L. Botelho, I. De Vlugt,
O. Di Matteo, P. Downing, P. Finlay, A. Fumagalli, A. Gardhouse, N. Girard, A. Hayes, J. Izaac, R. Janik, T.
Kalajdzievski, N. Killoran, I. Kurečić, O. Landon-Cardinal, D. Nino, A. Otto, C. Pere, J. Pickering, J. Soni,
D. Wakeham. (2023) Xanadu Quantum Codebook. (https://codebook.xanadu.ai/)

2. Alessio Serafini, Quantum Continuous Variables A Primer of Theoretical Methods, 2nd Edition CRC Press
(2023)

3. Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press) (2010)


### Collected Resources
This part of the website, I collect different resources and links
#### Lectures
* [John Preskill (Caltech) Ph219 - Quantum Computation](http://theory.caltech.edu/~preskill/ph219/ph219_2024.html)
* [James R. Lee (UWashington) CSE 599Q: Intro to Quantum Computing](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~jrl/teaching/cse599Q/)
* [Ryan O'Donnell (CMU) 15-859BB: Quantum Computation and Quantum Information](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~odonnell/quantum18/)
* [Umesh Vazirani (UC Berkeley) CS294-2: Quantum Computation](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~vazirani/quantum.html)
* [Scott Aaronson (UT Austin)](https://www.scottaaronson.com/qclec/combined.pdf)
* [Ronald de Wolf - Quantum Computing: Lecture Notes](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.09415)
* [Andrew Childs (UWaterloo) Quantum algorithms](https://www.math.uwaterloo.ca/~amchilds/teaching/w08/co781.html)
* [Moin Qureshi (GaTech) - CS8803 Introduction to Quantum Computing](https://omscs.gatech.edu/sites/default/files/documents/2024/Syllabi-CS%208803%20O13%202024-1%20v2.pdf)



#### Books
* [Mark M. Wilde - From Classical to Quantum Shannon Theory](https://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1445) in ArXiv
